---
title: User blog:BananaChelly Chelly's Rad as Shit Guide to Mods
permalink: /User_blog-BananaChelly/Chelly's_Rad_as_Shit_Guide_to_Mods/
tags: [Guides]
---

[thumb|left](/File:So_meme.jpg "wikilink")

So.

You've taken an interest in modding MGSV, but you don't know where to
begin? Here are some great mods to start you off with\! 

## [Snakebite Mod Manager](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/106)

[thumbYour](/File:Snakebite.png "wikilink") first order of business
should be to install Snakebite, the mod manager used for all MGSV mods.
Set up is pretty simple: After it backs up your game files, you're good
to go. Keep in mind that when you're installing mods, it'll take a
moment because Snakebite has to unpack and repack large data files. The
more mods you have, the longer this will take. Same goes for
uninstalling mods, of course\! 

## [Infinite Heaven](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/45)

[thumb](/File:45-0-1448484425.jpg "wikilink")

By far the most useful mod, Infinite Heaven does...basically everything
you could want. Tweak health values, guard sight/hearing, timescale,
enemy equipment, basically whatever. You can force Subsistence mode for
any mission, spawn war games on Mother Base, enable freecam, skip
helicopter rides...whatever you want, basically. The UI is a little
clunky to navigate, but it's still pretty much mandatory to use. Another
bonus is that it's highly modular, allowing you to install various
add-ons to it. Which brings us to...

## [Morbid's Side-Op Expansion Pack](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/464)

[thumbThis](/File:464-4-1494937450.jpg "wikilink") mod adds a
whopping *50* side ops to the main game\! All of them have unique
flavor text and obstacles, so no "Extract the Soldier \#32" here\! When
you get done playing them all, you can create your own side-ops with
[SideOp
Companion\!](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/571)

## [The Man Who Sold The World](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/59)

[thumbShameless](/File:59-1532209796-1642007205.png "wikilink")
promotion. Sue me, it's my guide. 

Anyway, this mod allows you to play as the guy you thought you would be
playing as when you bought the game. Not only can you swap Venom Snake's
head for Big Boss's, you can swap his bionic arm for a real one\!
Includes variations, too\! 

## [Yet Another Weather Mod](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/328)

This mod changes the weather values of the game, so that incliment
weather lasts longer. In addition, rain has a chance of appearing in
Afghanistan, and fog has a chance of appearing in Africa and Mother
Base. 

## [Audio Redux](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/353)

Mutes a lot of repetitive audio cues, from Miller's radio comments to
the riff that plays when you mount D-Horse. A godsend if "BOSS GET DOWN"
gives you anxiety.

## Mod authors to keep an eye on

So once you've got a grasp on the basics, you might want to check out
some other mods that appeal to your niche tastes. I recommend following
these mod authors, as they're known for putting out really good stuff.
In no particular order...

  - [Morbidslinky](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/users/3335983)
  - [CapLagRobin](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/users/34529480)
  - [FrankensteinKappa](https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/users/38775980)
  - [Cuba](https://www.nexusmods.com/users/6583285)
  - [BaileyJIII](https://www.nexusmods.com/users/2881893)
  - [BobDoleOwndU](https://www.nexusmods.com/users/4085798)

## "But I want to make a mod\!" 

Then join [Modder's Heaven](https://discord.gg/yttPsfr), a Discord
server where people are happy to help new faces learn the ins and outs
of MGSV modding\! Welcome aboard\!