---
title: Steam Deck
permalink: /Steam_Deck/
---

Quick guide to using Snakebite for the deck.

1\. Go to desktop mode on your Deck by holding down the power button and
selecting "Switch to desktop".

2\. In the bottom left of the desktop you'll see the "Discover" app
store. Open it and search for "Wine" (has a tasty glass of red wine for
a logo) and download it.

3\. Next, download Snakebite from here:
https://www.nexusmods.com/metalgearsolidvtpp/mods/106

4\. When Snakebite is downloaded, navigate to your download folder and
using the right track pad you must right click "SnakeBiteInstaller.exe",
then "Open with..." then click your newly installed Wine. Once
downloaded, you will see both SnakeBite and SnakeBite.ink - you will
need to execute SnakeBite.ink every time you wish to use it. In order to
execute it, right click it using the track pad and click "Open with..."
then your newly installed Wine.

5\. You'll now need to locate your game directory. This part seems
tricky at first, but ultimately isn't once you know what to do. Click
the 3 dots to start locating the directory - go to: /home/deck/ then
once your in "deck" you need to click the bar which you can type in and
pull up the steam keyboard using the STEAM button + X. You'll then need
to type ".local" (minus the quotation marks) then click enter so you
enter the hidden .local folder. You should now be able to go to
/share/steam/steamapps/common/MGS_TPP. Follow the next steps in order
to install your downloaded mods.

NOTE: You will have to repeat this process every time you wish to open
SnakeBite, at least for now.